Updating the installation guide (#616)
MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr: articles/install-guide/qjupyter.md

---
title: Develop with Q# Jupyter notebooks
author: natke
ms.author: nakersha
ms.date: 9/30/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: how-to
uid: microsoft.quantum.install.jupyter
---

# Develop with Q# Jupyter notebooks

> > [!WARNING]

Reviewer: We don't want to have this warning as the first para. The first para should convey the intent of the article. It is what will be displayed as a preview in search results.

Author: Ok, I added a paragraph in 49a99a8 to display "Install" as first word and mantain uniformity with the other sections.

> > * In Q# Jupyter Notebooks you only can run Q# code and you cannot call operations defined in the notebook from an external classical host program in Python or C#. This environment is not appropiate if your goal is to combine an external classical host program with the quantum program.

Author: But I also want to convey that you cannot run python or any other language besides Q# in the code. How about:

> 
In Q# Jupyter Notebooks you can only run Q# code and operations defined in Q# Jupyter Notebooks cannot be called from external host programs (e.g. Python or C# files). This environment is not appropriate if your goal is to combine an external classical host program with the quantum program.

> > * In Q# Jupyter Notebooks you only can run Q# code and you cannot call operations defined in the notebook from an external classical host program in Python or C#. This environment is not appropiate if your goal is to combine an external classical host program with the quantum program.

Reviewer 2: Ah yes that's a great point. I like that, just two comma additions (and perhaps italicize "only" to emphasize the implication?):

In Q# Jupyter Notebooks, you can _only_ run Q# code, and the operations cannot be called from external host programs (e.g. Python or C# files). This environment is not appropriate if your goal is to combine an external classical host program with the quantum program.

> > * In Q# Jupyter Notebooks you only can run Q# code and you cannot call operations defined in the notebook from an external classical host program in Python or C#. This environment is not appropiate if your goal is to combine an external classical host program with the quantum program.

Author: Yeah, that looks great.

> Commonplace in academic settings, scientific labs, and online-based collaborative programming, Jupyter Notebooks allow in-place code execution alongside instructions, notes, and other content. This environment is great for writing Q# code with embedded explanations or quantum computing interactive tutorials. Here's what you need to do to start creating your own Q# notebooks.

Reviewer: This para sounds way too sales-y. Suggest toning it down.

Author: Addressed in 74a7a54

---
title: Develop with Q# Jupyter notebooks
author: natke
ms.author: nakersha
ms.date: 9/30/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.custom: how-to
uid: microsoft.quantum.install.jupyter
---

# Develop with Q# Jupyter notebooks

Install the QDK for developing Q# operations on Q# Jupyter Notebooks.

Jupyter Notebooks allow in-place code execution alongside instructions, notes, and other content. This environment is ideal for writing Q# code with embedded explanations or quantum computing interactive tutorials. Here's what you need to do to start creating your own Q# notebooks.

IQ# (pronounced i-q-sharp) is an extension primarily used by Jupyter and Python to the .NET Core SDK that provides the core functionality for compiling and simulating Q# operations.

> > [!WARNING]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> [!WARNING]
```
```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
```

Changing to Note instead of Warning because this functionality is expected and doesn't necessarily defy user expectations

> * In Q# Jupyter Notebooks you can only run Q# code, and the operations cannot be called from external host programs (e.g. Python or C# files). This environment is not appropriate if your goal is to combine an external classical host program with the quantum program.

1. Pre-requisites

    - [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) 3.6 or later
    - [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html)
    - [.NET Core SDK 3.0 or later](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download)

1. Install the `iqsharp` package

    ```bash
    dotnet tool install -g Microsoft.Quantum.IQSharp
    dotnet iqsharp install
    ```

1. Verify the installation by creating a `Hello World` application

    - Run the following command to start the notebook server:

        ```bash
        jupyter notebook
        ```

>     - Browse to the URL shown on the command line. For example: [http://localhost:8888/?token=c790a52ba54f0cf77465c3c8983d776348285b0280d91b85]

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure we want to link to an actual URL here. If the command line spits out a URL we could 1) show a screen shot or 2) just say to navigate to the notebook by copy and pasting the URL provided by the command line into your browser

    - Create a Jupyter notebook with a Q# kernel, and add the following code to the first notebook cell:

        ```qsharp
        operation SayHello () : Unit {
            Message("Hello from quantum world!");
        }
        ```

    - Run this cell of the notebook:

        ![Jupyter notebook cell with Q# code](~/media/install-guide-jupyter.png)

        You should see `SayHello` in the output of the cell. When running in jupyter notebooks, the Q# code is compiled, and the notebook outputs the name of the operation(s) that it finds.

>     - In a new cell, simulate the execution in a quantum computer of the operation you just created by using the `%simulate` magic:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - In a new cell, execute the operation you just created (in a simulator) by using the `%simulate` command:
```
